# Ways To Help The Environment A Better Place! 

## Overview 

This website's purpose's to help spread awareness and the cause of the environment and its problems that we've known about for decades. Climate change, deforestation, pollution, waste disposal, and many more are supposed to we're supposed to discuss. Since these problems that I mentioned are severe if we don't do something about them. And I'm assuming you might have already seen the news about scientists getting arrested for protesting against authorities about climate change. And I'm here to help by making ways to help our environment.

## List of ways to help

### Reduce, reuse, recycle

Reduce, reuse, and recycle are ways of disposing of waste and protecting the environment. First, we must reduce the amount of waste we make. Think thoroughly about purchasing any product you need or want to avoid having excess that'll be a waste. Second, reuse items and products that we can use more than once, unlike one-use products. Avoid using plastic and paper utensils for eating use, reusable utensils. And lastly, recycling the products you use rather than throwing them away would be a waste. Fix something rather than replacing it, sort out which products you use that are non-recyclable and recyclable, avoid shredding paper, and keep recyclable products clean.

### Download and use apps that help the environment 

These applications I found and researched are reliable and safe to use:
#### - Ecosia 
Ecosia is a German search engine founded in Berlin. It gives away 80% of its proceeds to reforestation-focused charitable groups. It calls itself a social enterprise, claims to be CO2-neutral, and claims to support complete financial transparency and user privacy. Ecosia has earned B Lab certification, demonstrating that it meets the organization's standards for accountability, sustainability, and performance. The company claims to have planted over 149 million trees since its founding in May 2022.
#### - Ocean Hero
Ocean Hero is a search engine dedicated to collecting plastic debris in the oceans, primarily bottle waste. The United Nations Head of Marine and Freshwater Branch has certified it. It's similar to Ecosia, a search engine that funds tree planting. Like most other search engines, and gives money by displaying advertisements alongside search results. It then uses the advertising income to collect plastic bottles from Southeast Asian waterways. It's also possible to install it as an extension, and its use provides financial assistance for cleaning plastic from the oceans. Many low-income people work with OceanHero to get paid from the revenue generated by ads appearing in search results and by removing trash from their local waters.
#### - Good Guide
Consumers may access analyses of the health, environmental, and social consequences of consuming products such as toys, food, and detergents through the GoodGuide.Com website, iPhone app, and Android app. Consumers could use GoodGuide's tools to make purchasing decisions based on a product's health, environmental, and social effect throughout its life cycle. GoodGuide intends to deliver this information to customers immediately at the point of sale, allowing them to apply their values to their choices. Use the phone's camera, and the smartphone app reads bar codes on product labels and delivers a summary of the product's score according to GoodGuide's rating system.
#### - Earth Hero
EarthHero is a website that makes sustainable buying simple! Every product on our site must fulfill our stringent sustainability requirements, and we ship all of our purchases without using plastic or emitting carbon. They're a group of people who care about the environment and want to make sustainability simple and accessible. EarthHero is an online marketplace dedicated to making environmentally friendly shopping simple and convenient for customers and businesses. They provide environmentally friendly companies and items to our one-stop store for those who love the world as a 1 percent for the Planet, Climate Neutral, and certified B Corp. 
#### - Forest 
Forest is a famous productivity tool that helps individuals overcome their smartphone addiction and manage their time in a productive way. Users can earn credits by not using their phones and using the credits to plant actual trees all over the world. They have over 2,086,013 trees planted. A review states that Forest is a good app for unplugging off your phone and helping plant trees.
#### - JouleBug 
JouleBug is a simple method to make your everyday routines at home, work, and play more sustainable. With this freshly developed software, learn how you and your friends may use resources without depleting them. JouleBug groups sustainability tips into Actions, which you can Buzz in the app once you've completed them in real life.

### Conserve water and electricity usage 
It's vital to conserve both results in the conservation of nonrenewable resources that are fast depleting. Water and electricity are both necessary for human survival. There will be no life without water. Most of our everyday wants and needs will be unavailable without energy.
#### - Conserving water usage 
##### - Shower instead of bathing
##### - Turn off the water while brusing your teeth
##### - Install low-flow faucet aerators and water-saving shower heads. 
##### - Use garbage disposal units in the kitchen sink as little as possible.
##### - Drought-resistant grass, shrubs, and plants should be planted. Use environmentally-friendly equipment.
#### - Conserving electrical usage
##### - Turn off the lights if you're not using them.
##### - Unplug any electronics that aren't in use.
##### - Reduce the electrical usage of your refrigerator.
##### - Make use of energy-saving light bulbs.
##### - Use smart power strips

### Spread awareness about the situation
Here are ways to spread awarness:
#### - Make a video and upload it to social media
What type of video?
##### - Commentary 
##### - PSA (Public Service Announcement)
##### - Short Film 
#### - Making a poster and posting it on social media
Where to make a poster?
##### - Canva
##### - Visme
##### - Adobe Spark
##### - Design Wizard
##### - Easil
##### - Snappa
##### - Crello
##### - Stencil
##### - PicMonkey
#### - Telling family, friends, and anybody you know
#### - Making a website and sharing it

### Change to a new renewable energy source 
We must change to renewable energy because using fossil fuels to generate energy that produces no greenhouse gas emissions. And lowers some types of air pollution, increases energy diversity, and minimizes reliance on imported fuels. Manufacturing, installation, and other industries are creating economic development and jobs. Solar energy from the sun, geothermal energy from the heat inside the earth, wind energy, biomass from plants, and hydropower from flowing water are examples of renewable energy sources we should use.
#### - Solar Energy
Photovoltaic (PV) panels or mirrors that concentrate solar radiation are used in solar technologies to convert sunlight into electrical energy. This energy can be converted into electricity or stored in batteries or thermal storage.Solar power is a pollution-free, renewable energy source. Unlike fossil fuels like coal and natural gas, Solar does not emit harmful pollutants or greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide, into the air and water supplies.

#### - Geothermal Energy
Geothermal energy is heat that originates deep within the ground. Because heat is constantly produced inside the earth, geothermal energy is a renewable energy source. Geothermal heat is used for bathing, heating houses, and generating energy. In comparison to other renewable energy sources like wind and solar, geothermal delivers a consistent stream of electricity. It's because, unlike wind or solar energy, the resource is constantly available.

#### - Wind Energy
Both "wind energy" and "wind power" refer to using the wind to generate mechanical or electrical power.  We must use this mechanical energy for specialized purposes such as grinding grain or pumping water or be converted to electricity using a generator. In general, wind energy has fewer environmental consequences than many other energy sources. With few exceptions, wind turbines do not emit pollutants into the air or water, and they do not require water for cooling.

#### - Biomass Energy
Biomass energy is the energy produced or generated by living or extinct organisms. Plants, such as corn and soy, are the most frequent biomass materials utilized for energy. We can use the energy produced by these organisms to generate heat or power. Biomass is an abundant energy source. Agriculture, forestry, fishery, aquaculture, algae, and garbage are all sources. Many energy experts agree of the economic and environmental characteristics of Biomass energy are considered the ideal options.

#### - Hydropower Energy
Hydropower, often known as hydroelectric power, is a type of renewable energy that generates electricity by harnessing the natural flow of water. Hydropower provides flood control, irrigation support, and clean drinking water in addition to energy generation. Hydropower is cost-effective. In comparison to other energy sources, hydropower provides low-cost electricity and long-term durability.

### Help plant trees around where you live
Helping plant trees so we can help end deforestation and make our area more lively. They also assist in the soil capture and store carbon. Despite not doing such an incredible job as oceans do, they absorb around 90% of all carbon emissions and then suffer the impacts of ocean acidification. And trees are significant to help stop climate change. Photosynthesis is when trees collect carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and store it in their wood. Trees and plants will store this carbon dioxide and reduce the amount of gas building up in our atmosphere, rapidly making our planet warmer.

### Donate if you can
The involvement of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in biodiversity protection is crucial. Because the bulk of these organizations relies on public donations to sustain their operations, fundraising performance is a factor in conservation outcomes. You can also donate anything you don't use. For example, donating your clothing will help keep landfills from expanding and usable materials from being discarded. Many mass-produced clothing lines have fibers that will never break down, no matter how long they are worn.

### Buy eco-friendly products 
An environmentally friendly product is less detrimental to the environment than its conventional competitors. More people purchasing eco-friendly items would reduce pollution, give our planet a chance to breathe and rejuvenate, and make our families and communities healthier in the long run. Furthermore, eco-friendly items are not only good for the environment but also for human health.

### Support local producers and businesses 
Locally held enterprises are more likely to buy their products locally, reducing the need for transportation and outsourcing. They usually take up less area, are closer to homes, and produce less traffic and pollution. Buying from local farmers assists local farmers and suppliers in expanding their operations. Because all of my components are in need from local farms, it promotes a sustainable food system. We support our community's economy by purchasing food from local farms.

### Delete unwanted emails  
Every email sent and received consumes electricity. This is utilized to run the computer, server, and routers, as well as to build the equipment. Coal, oil, and gas are burned in fossil fuel power plants to generate this electricity. If we removed 500 unread emails (assuming they're not crucial emails), we'd save 175 grams of CO2, assuming each email contributes 0.3 grams of CO2. Electricity is produced by fossil fuels, as we all know. Instead of saving every email you receive, try deleting the ones you don't need. You'll clear up space and avoid paying to store inactive emails. If an email is essential, filing it away in a folder or label will make it easier to locate later.

## Something to motivate you!
I know that these are a lot but do as much as you can, and I'm not pressuring you to do all of it. Even the littlest things can help the environment. And as long as we can do it together and help each other, we can help spread the cause. Let's help save our environment together for the better and our home planet.
♥ 
